README.md, before:

# 🎶 Python Music Theory Toolkit

A collection of Python tools for exploring music theory:
- Generate scales
- Recognize intervals
- Build chords and chord progressions
- Train your ear with quizzes
- Export music to MIDI and sheet music
- Analyze real-world music data

## 🚀 Getting Started

Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/python-music-theory-toolkit.git
cd python-music-theory-toolkit


Install requirements:

pip install -r requirements.txt


📂 Project Structure

scales.py          # Generate major/minor scales
intervals.py       # Recognize intervals
chords.py          # Build chords
progressions.py    # Generate chord progressions
ear_training.py    # Simple ear training app
midi_tools.py      # MIDI + sheet music export
data_analysis.py   # Chord/key data analysis
examples/          # Jupyter notebooks with demos


📖 Tutorials / Articles

This toolkit is explained in a full article series:

Teaching Python to Build Musical Scales

How Python Can Recognize Musical Intervals

Building Chords with Python

Generating Chord Progressions

Python Ear Training App

Generating MIDI and Sheet Music

Music Data Analysis with Python

👉 Blog: hazimed.com

👉 Medium: Your Medium Profile

👉 YouTube: Your Channel

🎹 Try It Online

Run in Google Colab

Streamlit Demo

📜 License

MIT License – free to use and adapt.

Commit message:

updated section: Try it online in Readme.md

README.md, after:

# 🎶 Python Music Theory Toolkit

A collection of Python tools for exploring music theory:
- Generate scales
- Recognize intervals
- Build chords and chord progressions
- Train your ear with quizzes
- Export music to MIDI and sheet music
- Analyze real-world music data

## 🚀 Getting Started

Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/python-music-theory-toolkit.git
cd python-music-theory-toolkit


Install requirements:

pip install -r requirements.txt


📂 Project Structure

scales.py          # Generate major/minor scales
intervals.py       # Recognize intervals
chords.py          # Build chords
progressions.py    # Generate chord progressions
ear_training.py    # Simple ear training app
midi_tools.py      # MIDI + sheet music export
data_analysis.py   # Chord/key data analysis
examples/          # Jupyter notebooks with demos


📖 Tutorials / Articles

This toolkit is explained in a full article series:

Teaching Python to Build Musical Scales

How Python Can Recognize Musical Intervals

Building Chords with Python

Generating Chord Progressions

Python Ear Training App

Generating MIDI and Sheet Music

Music Data Analysis with Python

👉 Blog: hazimed.com

👉 Medium: Your Medium Profile

👉 YouTube: Your Channel

🎹 Try It Online

You can explore and interact with the toolkit in two ways:

1. Google Colab (Recommended for Tutorials & Learning)

Run the examples and demos from your browser — no installation required.

Ideal for learning, experimenting, and modifying code interactively.

Each notebook in examples/ can be opened directly in Colab.

Try it: Open in Google Colab

2. Streamlit App (Recommended for Interactive Use)

A web app that lets you interact with the toolkit without touching the code.

Choose scales, generate chords, train your ear, and export MIDI/Sheet Music with a simple interface.

Uses the main script app/app.py and can be deployed online via Streamlit Cloud or your own server.

Try it: Streamlit Demo

📜 License

MIT License – free to use and adapt.
